card up next to Ron’s and Hermione’s, grinning more

broadly than ever. Now there was only the letter from

Hogwarts left.

Noticing that it was rather thicker than usual, Harry

slit open the envelope, pulled out the first page of

parchment within, and read:

Dear Mr. Potter,

Please note that the new school year will begin on

September the first. The Hogwarts Express will leave

Page| 15 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling

from King’s Cross station, platform nine and three-quarters, at eleven
o'clock.

Third years are permitted to visit the village of
Hogsmeade on certain weekends. Please give the
enclosed permission form to your parent or guardian to
sign.

A list of books for next year is enclosed.

Yours sincerely,

Professor M. McGonagall

Deputy Headmistress

Harry pulled out the Hogsmeade permission form and

www.ztcprep.com
looked at it, no longer grinning. It would be wonderful
to visit Hogsmeade on weekends; he knew it was an
entirely wizarding village, and he had never set foot
there. But how on earth was he going to persuade
Uncle Vernon or Aunt Petunia to sign the form?

He looked over at the alarm clock. It was now two
o’clock in the morning.

Deciding that he’d worry about the Hogsmeade form
when he woke up, Harry got back into bed and
reached up to cross off another day on the chart he’d
made for himself, counting down the days left until
his return to Hogwarts. Then he took off his glasses
and lay down, eyes open, facing his three birthday
cards.

Extremely unusual though he was, at that moment
Harry Potter felt just like everyone else — glad, for the
first time in his life, that it was his birthday.

Page| 16 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling

www.ztcprep.com
AUNT MARGE’S BIG MISTAKE

Harry went down to breakfast the next morning to
find the three Dursleys already sitting around the
kitchen table. They were watching a brand-new
television, a welcome-home-for-the-summer present
for Dudley, who had been complaining loudly about
the long walk between the fridge and the television in
the living room. Dudley had spent most of the
summer in the kitchen, his piggy little eyes fixed on
the screen and his five chins wobbling as he ate
continually.

Harry sat down between Dudley and Uncle Vernon, a
large, beefy man with very little neck and a lot of
mustache. Far from wishing Harry a happy birthday,
none of the Dursleys made any sign that they had

noticed Harry enter the room, but Harry was far too

www.ztcprep.com
used to this to care. He helped himself to a piece of
toast and then looked up at the reporter on the
television, who was halfway through a report on an
escaped convict:

Page| 17 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling
“... The public is warned that Black is armed and
extremely dangerous. A special hot line has been set
up, and any sighting of Black should be reported
immediately.”

“No need to tell us he 5 no good,” snorted Uncle
Vernon, staring over the top of his newspaper at the
prisoner. “Look at the state of him, the filthy
layabout! Look at his hair!”

He shot a nasty look sideways at Harry, whose untidy
hair had always been a source of great annoyance to
Uncle Vernon. Compared to the man on the
television, however, whose gaunt face was
surrounded by a matted, elbow-length tangle, Harry
felt very well groomed indeed.

The reporter had reappeared.

www.ztcprep.com
“The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries will
announce today —”

“Hang on!” barked Uncle Vernon, staring furiously at
the reporter. “You didn’t tell us where that maniac’s
escaped from! What use is that? Lunatic could be
coming up the street right now!”

Aunt Petunia, who was bony and horse-faced,
whipped around and peered intently out of the

kitchen window. Harry knew Aunt Petunia would
simply love to be the one to call the hot line number.
She was the nosiest woman in the world and spent
most of her life spying on the boring, law-abiding
neighbors.

“When will they /earn, ” said Uncle Vernon, pounding
the table with his large purple fist, “that hanging’s the
only way to deal with these people?”

Page| 18 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling
“Very true,” said Aunt Petunia, who was still
squinting into next door’s runner beans.

Uncle Vernon drained his teacup, glanced at his

www.ztcprep.com
watch, and added, “I’d better be off in a minute,
Petunia. Marge’s train gets in at ten.”

Harry, whose thoughts had been upstairs with the
Broomstick Servicing Kit, was brought back to earth
with an unpleasant bump.

“Aunt Marge?” he blurted out. “Sh — she’s not
coming here, is she?”

Aunt Marge was Uncle Vernon’s sister. Even though
she was not a blood relative of Harry’s (whose mother
had been Aunt Petunia’s sister), he had been forced to
call her “Aunt” all his life. Aunt Marge lived in the
country, in a house with a large garden, where she
bred bulldogs. She didn’t often stay at Privet Drive,
because she couldn’t bear to leave her precious dogs,
but each of her visits stood out horribly vividly in
Harry’s mind.

At Dudley’s fifth birthday party, Aunt Marge had
whacked Harry around the shins with her walking
stick to stop him from beating Dudley at musical

statues. A few years later, she had turned up at

www.ztcprep.com
Christmas with a computerized robot for Dudley and
a box of dog biscuits for Harry. On her last visit, the
year before Harry started at Hogwarts, Harry had
accidentally trodden on the tail of her favorite dog.
Ripper had chased Harry out into the garden and up

a tree, and Aunt Marge had refused to call him off
until past midnight. The memory of this incident still
brought tears of laughter to Dudley’s eyes.

“Marge’ll be here for a week,” Uncle Vernon snarled,
“and while we’re on the subject” — he pointed a fat
Page| 19 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling

finger threateningly at Harry — “we need to get a few things straight before
I go and collect her.”

Dudley smirked and withdrew his gaze from the
television. Watching Harry being bullied by Uncle
Vernon was Dudley’s favorite form of entertainment.
“Firstly,” growled Uncle Vernon, “you'll keep a civil
tongue in your head when you’re talking to Marge.”
“All right,” said Harry bitterly, “if she does when she’s
talking to me.”

“Secondly,” said Uncle Vernon, acting as though he

www.ztcprep.com
had not heard Harry’s reply, “as Marge doesn’t know
anything about your abnormality, I don’t want any —
any funny stuff while she’s here. You behave yourself,
got me?”

“T will if she does,” said Harry through gritted teeth.
“And thirdly,” said Uncle Vernon, his mean little eyes
now slits in his great purple face, “we’ve told Marge
you attend St. Brutus’s Secure Center for Incurably
Criminal Boys.”

“What?” Harry yelled.

“And you’ll be sticking to that story, boy, or there’ll be
trouble,” spat Uncle Vernon.

Harry sat there, white-faced and furious, staring at
Uncle Vernon, hardly able to believe it. Aunt Marge
coming for a week-long visit — it was the worst
birthday present the Dursleys had ever given him,
including that pair of Uncle Vernon’s old socks.
Page| 20 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling

“Well, Petunia,” said Uncle Vernon, getting heavily to his feet, “I'll be off
to the station, then. Want to come

along for the ride, Dudders?”

www.ztcprep.com
“No,” said Dudley, whose attention had returned to
the television now that Uncle Vernon had finished
threatening Harry.

“Duddy’s got to make himself smart for his auntie,”
said Aunt Petunia, smoothing Dudley’s thick blond
hair. “Mummy’s bought him a lovely new bow tie.”
Uncle Vernon clapped Dudley on his porky shoulder.
“See you in a bit, then,” he said, and he left the
kitchen.

Harry, who had been sitting in a kind of horrified
trance, had a sudden idea. Abandoning his toast, he
got quickly to his feet and followed Uncle Vernon to
the front door.

Uncle Vernon was pulling on his car coat.

“T’m not taking you, ” he snarled as he turned to see
Harry watching him.

“Like I wanted to come,” said Harry coldly. “I want to
ask you something.”

Uncle Vernon eyed him suspiciously.

“Third years at Hog — at my school are allowed to

www.ztcprep.com
visit the village sometimes,” said Harry.

“So?” snapped Uncle Vernon, taking his car keys from

a hook next to the door.

Page| 21 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling
“TI need you to sign the permission form,” said Harry in a rush.

“And why should I do that?” sneered Uncle Vernon.

“Well,” said Harry, choosing his words carefully, “itll

be hard work, pretending to Aunt Marge I go to that

St. Whatsits —”

“St. Brutus’s Secure Center for Incurably Criminal

i haa

Boys!” bellowed Uncle Vernon, and Harry was pleased
to hear a definite note of panic in Uncle Vernon’s
voice.

“Exactly,” said Harry, looking calmly up into Uncle
Vernon’s large, purple face. “It’s a lot to remember. I’1l
have to make it sound convincing, won’t I? What if I
accidentally let something slip?”

“You'll get the stuffing knocked out of you, wont you?”

roared Uncle Vernon, advancing on Harry with his fist

raised. But Harry stood his ground.

www.ztcprep.com
“Knocking the stuffing out of me won’t make Aunt
Marge forget what I could tell her,” he said grimly.
Uncle Vernon stopped, his fist still raised, his face an
ugly puce.

“But if you sign my permission form,” Harry went on
quickly, “I swear I’1l remember where I’m supposed to
go to school, and I'll act like a Mug — like I’m normal
and everything.”

Harry could tell that Uncle Vernon was thinking it
over, even if his teeth were bared and a vein was
throbbing in his temple.

Page| 22 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling
“Right,” he snapped finally. “I shall monitor your
behavior carefully during Marge’s visit. If, at the end
of it, you’ve toed the line and kept to the story, Il
sign your ruddy form.”

He wheeled around, pulled open the front door, and
slammed it so hard that one of the little panes of

glass at the top fell out.

Harry didn’t return to the kitchen. He went back

www.ztcprep.com
upstairs to his bedroom. If he was going to act like a
real Muggle, he’d better start now. Slowly and sadly
he gathered up all his presents and his birthday

cards and hid them under the loose floorboard with
his homework. Then he went to Hedwig’s cage. Errol
seemed to have recovered; he and Hedwig were both
asleep, heads under their wings. Harry sighed, then
poked them both awake.

“Hedwig,” he said gloomily, “you’re going to have to
clear off for a week. Go with Errol. Ron’ll look after
you. I’ll write him a note, explaining. And don’t look at
me like that” — Hedwig’s large amber eyes were
reproachful — “it’s not my fault. It’s the only way I'll
be allowed to visit Hogsmeade with Ron and
Hermione.”

Ten minutes later, Errol and Hedwig (who had a note
to Ron bound to her leg) soared out of the window
and out of sight. Harry, now feeling thoroughly
miserable, put the empty cage away inside the

wardrobe.

www.ztcprep.com
But Harry didn’t have long to brood. In next to no
time, Aunt Petunia was shrieking up the stairs for
Harry to come down and get ready to welcome their
guest.

Page| 23 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling
“Do something about your hair!” Aunt Petunia
snapped as he reached the hall.

Harry couldn’t see the point of trying to make his hair
lie flat. Aunt Marge loved criticizing him, so the
untidier he looked, the happier she would be.

All too soon, there was a crunch of gravel outside as
Uncle Vernon’s car pulled back into the driveway,
then the clunk of the car doors and footsteps on the
garden path.

“Get the door!” Aunt Petunia hissed at Harry.

A feeling of great gloom in his stomach, Harry pulled
the door open.

On the threshold stood Aunt Marge. She was very like
Uncle Vernon: large, beefy, and purple-faced, she

even had a mustache, though not as bushy as his. In

www.ztcprep.com
one hand she held an enormous suitcase, and tucked
under the other was an old and evil-tempered

bulldog.

“Where’s my Dudders?” roared Aunt Marge. “Where’s
my neffy-poo?”

Dudley came waddling down the hall, his blond hair
plastered flat to his fat head, a bow tie just visible
under his many chins. Aunt Marge thrust the

suitcase into Harry’s stomach, knocking the wind out
of him, seized Dudley in a tight one-armed hug, and
planted a large kiss on his cheek.

Harry knew perfectly well that Dudley only put up
with Aunt Marge’s hugs because he was well paid for
it, and sure enough, when they broke apart, Dudley
had a crisp twenty-pound note clutched in his fat fist.
Page| 24 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling

“Petunia!” shouted Aunt Marge, striding past Harry as though he was a hat
stand. Aunt Marge and Aunt

Petunia kissed, or rather, Aunt Marge bumped her
large jaw against Aunt Petunia’s bony cheekbone.

Uncle Vernon now came in, smiling jovially as he shut

www.ztcprep.com
the door.

“Tea, Marge?” he said. “And what will Ripper take?”
“Ripper can have some tea out of my saucer,” said
Aunt Marge as they all proceeded into the kitchen,
leaving Harry alone in the hall with the suitcase. But
Harry wasn’t complaining; any excuse not to be with
Aunt Marge was fine by him, so he began to heave the
case upstairs into the spare bedroom, taking as long
as he could.

By the time he got back to the kitchen, Aunt Marge
had been supplied with tea and fruitcake, and Ripper
was lapping noisily in the corner. Harry saw Aunt
Petunia wince slightly as specks of tea and drool
flecked her clean floor. Aunt Petunia hated animals.
“Who’s looking after the other dogs, Marge?” Uncle
Vernon asked.

“Oh, I’ve got Colonel Fubster managing them,”
boomed Aunt Marge. “He’s retired now, good for him
to have something to do. But I couldn’t leave poor old

Ripper. He pines if he’s away from me.”

www.ztcprep.com
