attached to the pink.”

Sure enough, Neville had no sooner reached the shelf
of teacups when there was a tinkle of breaking china.
Professor Trelawney swept over to him holding a
dustpan and brush and said, “One of the blue ones,
then, dear, if you wouldn’t mind ... thank you. ...”
When Harry and Ron had had their teacups filled,
they went back to their table and tried to drink the
scalding tea quickly. They swilled the dregs around as
Professor Trelawney had instructed, then drained the
cups and swapped over.

“Right,” said Ron as they both opened their books at
pages five and six. “What can you see in mine?”

“A load of soggy brown stuff,” said Harry. The heavily
perfumed smoke in the room was making him feel
sleepy and stupid.

“Broaden your minds, my dears, and allow your eyes
to see past the mundane!” Professor Trelawney cried
through the gloom.

Page| 115 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling

www.ztcprep.com
Harry tried to pull himself together.

“Right, you’ve got a crooked sort of cross ...” He
consulted Unfogging the Future. “That means you’re
going to have ‘trials and suffering’ — sorry about that
— but there’s a thing that could be the sun ... hang

on ... that means ‘great happiness’ ... so you’re going
to suffer but be very happy. ...”

“You need your Inner Eye tested, if you ask me,” said
Ron, and they both had to stifle their laughs as
Professor Trelawney gazed in their direction.

“My turn ...” Ron peered into Harry’s teacup, his
forehead wrinkled with effort. “There’s a blob a bit like
a bowler hat,” he said. “Maybe you’re going to work
for the Ministry of Magic. ...”

He turned the teacup the other way up.

“But this way it looks more like an acorn. ... What’s
that?” He scanned his copy of Unfogging the Future. “
‘A windfall, unexpected gold.’ Excellent, you can lend
me some ... and there’s a thing here,” he turned the

cup again, “that looks like an animal ... yeah, if that

www.ztcprep.com
was its head ... it looks like a hippo ... no, a sheep ...”

Professor Trelawney whirled around as Harry let out a

snort of laughter.

“Let me see that, my dear,” she said reprovingly to

Ron, sweeping over and snatching Harry’s cup from

him. Everyone went quiet to watch.

Professor Trelawney was staring into the teacup,

rotating it counterclockwise.

“The falcon ... my dear, you have a deadly enemy.”

Page| 116 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling

“But everyone knows that,” said Hermione in a loud whisper. Professor
Trelawney stared at her.

“Well, they do,” said Hermione. “Everybody knows
about Harry and You-Know-Who.”

Harry and Ron stared at her with a mixture of
amazement and admiration. They had never heard
Hermione speak to a teacher like that before.
Professor Trelawney chose not to reply. She lowered
her huge eyes to Harry’s cup again and continued to
turn it.

“The club ... an attack. Dear, dear, this is not a happy

www.ztcprep.com
te)

cup. ...
“T thought that was a bowler hat,” said Ron

sheepishly.

“The skull ... danger in your path, my dear. ...”

Everyone was staring, transfixed, at Professor

Trelawney, who gave the cup a final turn, gasped, and

then screamed.

There was another tinkle of breaking china; Neville

had smashed his second cup. Professor Trelawney

sank into a vacant armchair, her glittering hand at

her heart and her eyes closed.

“My dear boy ... my poor, dear boy ... no ... it is

kinder not to say ... no ... don’t ask me. ...”

“What is it, Professor?” said Dean Thomas at once.

Everyone had got to their feet, and slowly they

crowded around Harry and Ron’s table, pressing close

to Professor Trelawney’s chair to get a good look at

Harry’s cup.

Page|117 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling

“My dear,” Professor Trelawney’s huge eyes opened

www.ztcprep.com
dramatically, “‘you have the Grim.”

“The what?” said Harry.

He could tell that he wasn’t the only one who didn’t
understand; Dean Thomas shrugged at him and
Lavender Brown looked puzzled, but nearly everybody
else clapped their hands to their mouths in horror.

“The Grim, my dear, the Grim!” cried Professor
Trelawney, who looked shocked that Harry hadn’t
understood. “The giant, spectral dog that haunts
churchyards! My dear boy, it is an omen — the worst
omen — of death!”

Harry’s stomach lurched. That dog on the cover of
Death Omens in Flourish and Blotts — the dog in the
shadows of Magnolia Crescent ... Lavender Brown
clapped her hands to her mouth too. Everyone was
looking at Harry, everyone except Hermione, who had
gotten up and moved around to the back of Professor
Trelawney’s chair.

“7 don’t think it looks like a Grim,” she said flatly.

Professor Trelawney surveyed Hermione with

www.ztcprep.com
mounting dislike.

“You’ll forgive me for saying so, my dear, but I

perceive very little aura around you. Very little

receptivity to the resonances of the future.”

Seamus Finnigan was tilting his head from side to

side.

“Tt looks like a Grim if you do this,” he said, with his

eyes almost shut, “but it looks more like a donkey

from here,” he said, leaning to the left.

Page| 118 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling

thd
!

“When you’ve all finished deciding whether I’m going to die or not!” said

Harry, taking even himself by

surprise. Now nobody seemed to want to look at him.
“T think we will leave the lesson here for today,” said
Professor Trelawney in her mistiest voice. “Yes ...
please pack away your things. ...”

Silently the class took their teacups back to Professor
Trelawney, packed away their books, and closed their
bags. Even Ron was avoiding Harry’s eyes.

“Until we meet again,” said Professor Trelawney

faintly, “fair fortune be yours. Oh, and dear” — she

www.ztcprep.com
pointed at Neville — “you'll be late next time, so mind
you work extra-hard to catch up.”

Harry, Ron, and Hermione descended Professor
Trelawney’s ladder and the winding stair in silence,
then set off for Professor McGonagall’s
Transfiguration lesson. It took them so long to find
her classroom that, early as they had left Divination,
they were only just in time.

Harry chose a seat right at the back of the room,
feeling as though he were sitting in a very bright
spotlight; the rest of the class kept shooting furtive
glances at him, as though he were about to drop dead
at any moment. He hardly heard what Professor
McGonagall was telling them about Animagi (wizards
who could transform at will into animals), and wasn’t
even watching when she transformed herself in front
of their eyes into a tabby cat with spectacle markings
around her eyes.

“Really, what has got into you all today?” said

Professor McGonagall, turning back into herself with

www.ztcprep.com
a faint pop, and staring around at them all. “Not that
Page|119 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling
it matters, but that’s the first time my

transformation’s not got applause from a class.”
Everybody’s heads turned toward Harry again, but
nobody spoke. Then Hermione raised her hand.
“Please, Professor, we’ve just had our first Divination
class, and we were reading the tea leaves, and —”
“Ah, of course,” said Professor McGonagall, suddenly
frowning. “There is no need to say any more, Miss
Granger. Tell me, which of you will be dying this
year?”

Everyone stared at her.

“Me,” said Harry, finally.

“TI see,” said Professor McGonagall, fixing Harry with
her beady eyes. “Then you should know, Potter, that
Sibyll Trelawney has predicted the death of one
student a year since she arrived at this school. None
of them has died yet. Seeing death omens is her

favorite way of greeting a new class. If it were not for

www.ztcprep.com
the fact that I never speak ill of my colleagues —”
Professor McGonagall broke off, and they saw that her
nostrils had gone white. She went on, more calmly,
“Divination is one of the most imprecise branches of
magic. I shall not conceal from you that I have very
little patience with it. True Seers are very rare, and
Professor Trelawney —”

She stopped again, and then said, in a very matter-of-
fact tone, ““You look in excellent health to me, Potter,
so you will excuse me if I don’t let you off homework

today. I assure you that if you die, you need not hand

www.ztcprep.com
39

it in.

Page| 120 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling

Hermione laughed. Harry felt a bit better. It was
harder to feel scared of a lump of tea leaves away
from the dim red light and befuddling perfume of
Professor Trelawney’s classroom. Not everyone was
convinced, however. Ron still looked worried, and
Lavender whispered, “But what about Neville’s cup?”
When the Transfiguration class had finished, they
joined the crowd thundering toward the Great Hall for
lunch.

“Ron, cheer up,” said Hermione, pushing a dish of
stew toward him. “You heard what Professor
McGonagall said.”

Ron spooned stew onto his plate and picked up his
fork but didn’t start.

“Harry,” he said, in a low, serious voice, “you haven t
seen a great black dog anywhere, have you?”

“Yeah, I have,” said Harry. “I saw one the night I left

the Dursleys’.”

www.ztcprep.com
Ron let his fork fall with a clatter.

“Probably a stray,” said Hermione calmly.

Ron looked at Hermione as though she had gone

mad.

“Hermione, if Harry’s seen a Grim, that’s — that’s

bad,” he said. “My — my uncle Bilius saw one and —

and he died twenty-four hours later!”

“Coincidence,” said Hermione airily, pouring herself

some pumpkin juice.

Page| 121 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling

“You don’t know what you’re talking about!” said Ron, starting to get
angry. “Grims scare the living daylights

out of most wizards!”

“There you are, then,” said Hermione in a superior
tone. “They see the Grim and die of fright. The Grim’s
not an omen, it’s the cause of death! And Harry’s still
with us because he’s not stupid enough to see one

and think, right, well, I’d better kick the bucket then!”
Ron mouthed wordlessly at Hermione, who opened

her bag, took out her new Arithmancy book, and

propped it open against the juice jug.

www.ztcprep.com
“T think Divination seems very woolly,” she said,
searching for her page. “A lot of guesswork, if you ask
me.”

“There was nothing woolly about the Grim in that
cup!” said Ron hotly.

“You didn’t seem quite so confident when you were
telling Harry it was a sheep,” said Hermione coolly.
“Professor Trelawney said you didn’t have the right
aura! You just don’t like being bad at something for a
change!”

He had touched a nerve. Hermione slammed her
Arithmancy book down on the table so hard that bits
of meat and carrot flew everywhere.

“If being good at Divination means I have to pretend
to see death omens in a lump of tea leaves, I’m not
sure I’1l be studying it much longer! That lesson was
absolute rubbish compared with my Arithmancy
class!”

She snatched up her bag and stalked away.

Page| 122 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling

www.ztcprep.com
Ron frowned after her.

“What’s she talking about?” he said to Harry. “She
hasn’t been to an Arithmancy class yet.”

Harry was pleased to get out of the castle after lunch.
Yesterday’s rain had cleared; the sky was a clear, pale
gray, and the grass was springy and damp underfoot
as they set off for their first ever Care of Magical
Creatures class.

Ron and Hermione weren’t speaking to each other.
Harry walked beside them in silence as they went
down the sloping lawns to Hagrid’s hut on the edge of
the Forbidden Forest. It was only when he spotted
three only-too-familiar backs ahead of them that he
realized they must be having these lessons with the
Slytherins. Malfoy was talking animatedly to Crabbe
and Goyle, who were chortling. Harry was quite sure
he knew what they were talking about.

Hagrid was waiting for his class at the door of his hut.
He stood in his moleskin overcoat, with Fang the

boarhound at his heels, looking impatient to start.

www.ztcprep.com
“C’mon, now, get a move on!” he called as the class
approached. “Got a real treat for yeh today! Great
lesson comin’ up! Everyone here? Right, follow me!”
For one nasty moment, Harry thought that Hagrid

was going to lead them into the forest; Harry had had
enough unpleasant experiences in there to last him a
lifetime. However, Hagrid strolled off around the edge
of the trees, and five minutes later, they found

themselves outside a kind of paddock. There was

nothing in there.

Page| 123 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling

“Everyone gather ’round the fence here!” he called.
“That’s it — make sure yeh can see — now, firs’ thing
yeh’ ll want ter do is open yer books —”

“How?” said the cold, drawling voice of Draco Malfoy.
“Eh?” said Hagrid.

“How do we open our books?” Malfoy repeated. He
took out his copy of The Monster Book of Monsters,
which he had bound shut with a length of rope. Other

people took theirs out too; some, like Harry, had

www.ztcprep.com
belted their book shut; others had crammed them
inside tight bags or clamped them together with

binder clips.

“Hasn’ — hasn’ anyone bin able ter open their
books?” said Hagrid, looking crestfallen.

The class all shook their heads.

“Yeh’ve got ter stroke ’em,” said Hagrid, as though
this was the most obvious thing in the world. “Look —
He took Hermione’s copy and ripped off the Spellotape
that bound it. The book tried to bite, but Hagrid ran a
giant forefinger down its spine, and the book

shivered, and then fell open and lay quiet in his hand.
“Oh, how silly we’ve all been!” Malfoy sneered. “We
should have stroked them! Why didn’t we guess!”

“I — I thought they were funny,” Hagrid said
uncertainly to Hermione.

“Oh, tremendously funny!” said Malfoy. “Really witty,
giving us books that try and rip our hands off!”

Page| 124 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban — J.K. Rowling

www.ztcprep.com
“Shut up, Malfoy,” said Harry quietly. Hagrid was
looking downcast and Harry wanted Hagrid’s first
lesson to be a success.

“Righ’ then,” said Hagrid, who seemed to have lost his
thread, “so — so yeh’ve got yer books an’ — an’ —
now yeh need the Magical Creatures. Yeah. So I’Il go
an’ get ’em. Hang on...”

He strode away from them into the forest and out of
sight.

“God, this place is going to the dogs,” said Malfoy
loudly. “That oaf teaching classes, my father’ Il have a
fit when I tell him —”

“Shut up, Malfoy,” Harry repeated.

“Careful, Potter, there’s a dementor behind you —”
“Oooooooh!” squealed Lavender Brown, pointing
toward the opposite side of the paddock.

Trotting toward them were a dozen of the most bizarre
creatures Harry had ever seen. They had the bodies,
hind legs, and tails of horses, but the front legs,

wings, and heads of what seemed to be giant eagles,

www.ztcprep.com
